.TH MPI 1 "9/15/2009" " " "MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI \-  Introduction to the Message-Passing Interface 
.SH DESCRIPTION

MPI stands for Message Passing Interface.
MPI is a specification (like C or Fortran) and there are a number of
implementations.  The rest of this man page describes the use of the MPICH
implementation of MPI.

.SH GETTING STARTED

Add MPI to your path
.nf
% set path = ( $path /usr/local/mpi/bin )
.fi

for the 
.I csh
and 
.I tcsh
shells, or
.nf
% export path=$path:/usr/local/mpi/bin
.fi

for 
.I sh
, 
.I ksh
, and 
.I bash
shells.

Compute pi to a given resolution on 8 processes
.nf
% mpiexec -n 8 /usr/local/mpi/examples/cpi
.fi


You can compile and link your own MPI programs with the commands 
.I mpicc
,
.I mpif77
, 
.I mpicxx
, and 
.I mpif90
:
.nf
% mpicc -o cpi cpi.c
% mpif77 -o fpi fpi.f
% mpicxx -o cxxpi cxxpi.cxx
% mpif790 -o pi3f90 pi3f90.f90
.fi

using the source code from 
.B /usr/local/mpi/examples
\&.


.SH DOCUMENTATION

PDF documentation can be found in directory
.I /usr/local/mpi/doc/
\&.
These include an installation manual (
.I install.pdf
)
and a user's manual (
.I usermanual.pdf
).

Man pages exist for every MPI subroutine and function.  The man pages are
also available on the Web at 
.I http://www.mcs.anl.gov/mpi/www
\&.

Additional on-line information is available at 
.I http://www.mcs.anl.gov/mpi
,
including a hypertext version of the standard, information on other libraries
that use MPI, and pointers to other MPI resources.

.SH VERSION

MPICH2 version 1.0

.SH LICENSE

Copyright 2002 University of Chicago.
See the file 
.I COPYRIGHT
for details.  The source code is freely available
by anonymous ftp from 
.I ftp.mcs.anl.gov
in 
.I pub/mpi/mpich2-beta.tar.gz
\&.


.SH FILES

.nf
/usr/local/mpi/                 MPI software directory
/usr/local/mpi/COPYRIGHT        Copyright notice
/usr/local/mpi/README           various notes and instructions
/usr/local/mpi/bin/             binaries, including mpiexec and mpicc
/usr/local/mpi/examples         elementary MPI programs
/usr/local/mpi/doc/             documentation
/usr/local/mpi/include/         include files
/usr/local/mpi/lib/             library files
.fi


.SH CONTACT

MPI-specific suggestions and bug reports should
be sent to 
.I mpich-discuss@mcs.anl.gov
\&.


.SH LOCATION
manpage.txt
